README.md, before:

# FSBM Digital Geology Platform
### A Spring Boot & React Solution for 3D Geological Preservation and Remote Learning

![Spring Boot](https://img.shields.io/badge/Spring%20Boot-6DB33F?style=for-the-badge&logo=springboot&logoColor=white)
![Spring Security](https://img.shields.io/badge/Spring%20Security-6DB33F?style=for-the-badge&logo=springsecurity&logoColor=white)
![JWT](https://img.shields.io/badge/JWT-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=jsonwebtokens&logoColor=white)
![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/MySQL-4479A1?style=for-the-badge&logo=mysql&logoColor=white)
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-20232A?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=61DAFB)
![Three.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Three.js-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=three.js&logoColor=white)
![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-2496ED?style=for-the-badge&logo=docker&logoColor=white)
![Jitsi](https://img.shields.io/badge/Jitsi-0074E0?style=for-the-badge&logo=jitsi&logoColor=white)

## 📖 Project Overview

The **FSBM Digital Geology Platform** is a comprehensive full-stack solution designed to modernize the Geology Department at the Faculty of Sciences Ben M'Sik (FSBM). In the face of digital transformation challenges, this platform addresses the critical need for preserving geological heritage and ensuring global accessibility to scientific resources.

By digitizing physical collections and integrating remote learning tools, this project bridges the gap between traditional geological study and modern software engineering, offering a unified environment for students, researchers, and administration.

---

## 🚀 Live Deployment Status

The backend infrastructure is currently live and serving requests. The frontend user interface is undergoing a major refactoring phase to optimize the 3D rendering engine.

| Component | Status | Access / Notes |
| :--- | :---: | :--- |
| **Backend API** | ✅ **Live** | [**Access Swagger UI**](https://goelogy-api.onrender.com/docs) <br> *Fully functional REST API with documentation.* |
| **Frontend UI** | 🔗 **Partner Repo** | [**Access Frontend Repository**](https://github.com/HamzaElhart/geology-platform) <br> *Hosted and maintained by frontend partner.* |

---

## 🏗️ Architecture & Design

### Monolithic Layered Architecture
To ensure deployment simplicity and maintenance efficiency for this academic ecosystem, the system follows a **Monolithic Layered Architecture**. This design ensures cohesive integration between the educational modules, the virtual museum, and the administrative dashboard.

### Security Implementation
Security is paramount for institutional data. The platform implements a robust, stateless security architecture using **Spring Security** combined with **JSON Web Tokens (JWT)**.
* **Authentication:** Validates identity via email/password.
* **Authorization:** Role-based access control (Admin, Teacher, Student) ensures users only interact with permitted endpoints.

![System Architecture Diagram - See Figure 30 in Report]

---

## ✨ Key Features & Visuals

### 🔐 Security & User Experience
The platform ensures secure access for all stakeholders (Students, Professors, Admins) using JWT-based authentication.
* **Secure Login:** Encrypted credential validation.
* **Role-Based Dashboards:** Custom UI views depending on user permissions.

|                         Login Interface                         | User Profile Management |
|:---------------------------------------------------------------:| :---: |
| <img src="assets/login-page.png" alt="Login Page" width="200"/> | <img src="assets/user-profile.png" alt="Profile" width="400"/> |
|               *Secure entry point for all users.*               | *Personalized profile settings.* |

---

### 🏛️ Virtual Museum (3D Visualization)
A core innovation is the **Virtual Museum**, allowing remote interaction with the department's physical collection.
* **Tech:** Three.js rendering of minerals and rocks.
* **Interaction:** Users can rotate, zoom, and analyze specimen textures.

|                                 3D Collection Grid                                  |                            Specimen Detail View                            |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
| <img src="assets/virtual-museum.png" alt="3D Collection" width="200" height="160"/> | <img src="assets/specimen-detail.png" alt="Specimen Detail" width="400" height="160"/> |
|                          *Categorized geological samples.*                          |                  *High-fidelity rendering with metadata.*                  |

---

### 🎓 Smart Classroom & Remote Learning
The platform includes a full Learning Management System (LMS) module.
* **Course Stream:** Professors can post announcements and lectures.
* **Live Conferencing:** Integrated Jitsi Meet for real-time virtual classes.

|                           Teacher Dashboard                            |                             Course Details & Resources                             |
|:----------------------------------------------------------------------:|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
| <img src="assets/teacher-dashboard.png" alt="Dashboard" width="400" height="80"/> | <img src="assets/course-details.png" alt="Course Stream" width="400" height="80"/> |
|                    *Global view of active courses.*                    |                       *Specific course timeline and files.*                        |

| Live Conference Interface |
| :---: |
| <img src="assets/video-conference.png" alt="Jitsi Meet" width="600"/> |
| *Real-time video lectures integrated directly into the browser.* |

---

### 📚 Digital Library & Resources
To support research, the platform centralizes scientific documentation.
* **Resource Hub:** Access to PDF theses, geological maps, and articles.
* **Searchable:** Filter content by category or publication date.

> **Digital Library Interface**
>
> ![Digital Library](assets/digital-library.png)
> *Central repository for scientific articles and geological references.*
---

## 🔌 API Documentation

The backend exposes a comprehensive set of RESTful endpoints documented via Swagger. Key controllers include:

* `AuthController`: Manages registration and secure login for all roles.
* `ClassroomController`: Handles course creation, student enrollment, and material uploads.
* `SpecimenController`: Manages the CRUD operations for the 3D geological collection and metadata.
* `ConferenceController`: Orchestrates Jitsi meeting links and session timing.

👉 **Test the endpoints live:** [https://goelogy-api.onrender.com/docs](https://goelogy-api.onrender.com/docs)

---

## 🛠️ Installation & Setup 

To replicate the production environment locally, we utilize **Docker** for containerization.

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/ELHIM-HM/goelogy-platform-api.git
    ```

2.  **Run with IntelliJ IDEA:**

    
3.  **Access Local Instance:**
    * API: `http://localhost:9000/api`
    * Swagger: `http://localhost:9000/docs`

---

## 👨‍💻 Tech Stack

**Backend**
* **Java / Spring Boot:** Core framework for API development.
* **Hibernate (ORM):** For efficient database interactions.
* **Spring Security & JWT:** For stateless authentication.

**Data**
* **MySQL:** Relational database management.

**Frontend**
* **React.js:** Component-based UI library.
* **Three.js:** 3D graphics rendering engine.
* **Tailwind CSS:** Utility-first styling framework.

**DevOps & Tools**
* **Docker:** Containerization.
* **Postman:** API testing and validation.
* **Visual Studio Code & IntelliJ IDEA:** Development environments.

---

Commit message:

clear the terminal log + adding powershell command to run the project

README.md, after:

# FSBM Digital Geology Platform
### A Spring Boot & React Solution for 3D Geological Preservation and Remote Learning

![Spring Boot](https://img.shields.io/badge/Spring%20Boot-6DB33F?style=for-the-badge&logo=springboot&logoColor=white)
![Spring Security](https://img.shields.io/badge/Spring%20Security-6DB33F?style=for-the-badge&logo=springsecurity&logoColor=white)
![JWT](https://img.shields.io/badge/JWT-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=jsonwebtokens&logoColor=white)
![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/MySQL-4479A1?style=for-the-badge&logo=mysql&logoColor=white)
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-20232A?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=61DAFB)
![Three.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Three.js-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=three.js&logoColor=white)
![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-2496ED?style=for-the-badge&logo=docker&logoColor=white)
![Jitsi](https://img.shields.io/badge/Jitsi-0074E0?style=for-the-badge&logo=jitsi&logoColor=white)

## 📖 Project Overview

The **FSBM Digital Geology Platform** is a comprehensive full-stack solution designed to modernize the Geology Department at the Faculty of Sciences Ben M'Sik (FSBM). In the face of digital transformation challenges, this platform addresses the critical need for preserving geological heritage and ensuring global accessibility to scientific resources.

By digitizing physical collections and integrating remote learning tools, this project bridges the gap between traditional geological study and modern software engineering, offering a unified environment for students, researchers, and administration.

---

## 🚀 Live Deployment Status

The backend infrastructure is currently live and serving requests. The frontend user interface is undergoing a major refactoring phase to optimize the 3D rendering engine.

| Component | Status | Access / Notes |
| :--- | :---: | :--- |
| **Backend API** | ✅ **Live** | [**Access Swagger UI**](https://goelogy-api.onrender.com/docs) <br> *Fully functional REST API with documentation.* |
| **Frontend UI** | 🔗 **Partner Repo** | [**Access Frontend Repository**](https://github.com/HamzaElhart/geology-platform) <br> *Hosted and maintained by frontend partner.* |

---

## 🏗️ Architecture & Design

### Monolithic Layered Architecture
To ensure deployment simplicity and maintenance efficiency for this academic ecosystem, the system follows a **Monolithic Layered Architecture**. This design ensures cohesive integration between the educational modules, the virtual museum, and the administrative dashboard.

### Security Implementation
Security is paramount for institutional data. The platform implements a robust, stateless security architecture using **Spring Security** combined with **JSON Web Tokens (JWT)**.
* **Authentication:** Validates identity via email/password.
* **Authorization:** Role-based access control (Admin, Teacher, Student) ensures users only interact with permitted endpoints.

![System Architecture Diagram - See Figure 30 in Report]

---

## ✨ Key Features & Visuals

### 🔐 Security & User Experience
The platform ensures secure access for all stakeholders (Students, Professors, Admins) using JWT-based authentication.
* **Secure Login:** Encrypted credential validation.
* **Role-Based Dashboards:** Custom UI views depending on user permissions.

|                         Login Interface                         | User Profile Management |
|:---------------------------------------------------------------:| :---: |
| <img src="assets/login-page.png" alt="Login Page" width="200"/> | <img src="assets/user-profile.png" alt="Profile" width="400"/> |
|               *Secure entry point for all users.*               | *Personalized profile settings.* |

---

### 🏛️ Virtual Museum (3D Visualization)
A core innovation is the **Virtual Museum**, allowing remote interaction with the department's physical collection.
* **Tech:** Three.js rendering of minerals and rocks.
* **Interaction:** Users can rotate, zoom, and analyze specimen textures.

|                                 3D Collection Grid                                  |                            Specimen Detail View                            |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
| <img src="assets/virtual-museum.png" alt="3D Collection" width="200" height="160"/> | <img src="assets/specimen-detail.png" alt="Specimen Detail" width="400" height="160"/> |
|                          *Categorized geological samples.*                          |                  *High-fidelity rendering with metadata.*                  |

---

### 🎓 Smart Classroom & Remote Learning
The platform includes a full Learning Management System (LMS) module.
* **Course Stream:** Professors can post announcements and lectures.
* **Live Conferencing:** Integrated Jitsi Meet for real-time virtual classes.

|                           Teacher Dashboard                            |                             Course Details & Resources                             |
|:----------------------------------------------------------------------:|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
| <img src="assets/teacher-dashboard.png" alt="Dashboard" width="400" height="80"/> | <img src="assets/course-details.png" alt="Course Stream" width="400" height="80"/> |
|                    *Global view of active courses.*                    |                       *Specific course timeline and files.*                        |

| Live Conference Interface |
| :---: |
| <img src="assets/video-conference.png" alt="Jitsi Meet" width="600"/> |
| *Real-time video lectures integrated directly into the browser.* |

---

### 📚 Digital Library & Resources
To support research, the platform centralizes scientific documentation.
* **Resource Hub:** Access to PDF theses, geological maps, and articles.
* **Searchable:** Filter content by category or publication date.

> **Digital Library Interface**
>
> ![Digital Library](assets/digital-library.png)
> *Central repository for scientific articles and geological references.*
---

## 🔌 API Documentation

The backend exposes a comprehensive set of RESTful endpoints documented via Swagger. Key controllers include:

* `AuthController`: Manages registration and secure login for all roles.
* `ClassroomController`: Handles course creation, student enrollment, and material uploads.
* `SpecimenController`: Manages the CRUD operations for the 3D geological collection and metadata.
* `ConferenceController`: Orchestrates Jitsi meeting links and session timing.

👉 **Test the endpoints live:** [https://goelogy-api.onrender.com/docs](https://goelogy-api.onrender.com/docs)

---

## 🛠️ Installation & Setup 

To replicate the production environment locally, we utilize **Docker** for containerization.

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/ELHIM-HM/goelogy-platform-api.git
    ```
2. **be sure to use openjdk 21 to run the project**

3. **Run with IntelliJ IDEA: Or with powershell using at the rool level of the project**
4. ```bash
    ./mvnw spring-boot:run
    ```

    
5. **Access Local Instance:**
    * API: `http://localhost:9000/api`
    * Swagger: `http://localhost:9000/docs`

---

## 👨‍💻 Tech Stack

**Backend**
* **Java / Spring Boot:** Core framework for API development.
* **Hibernate (ORM):** For efficient database interactions.
* **Spring Security & JWT:** For stateless authentication.

**Data**
* **MySQL:** Relational database management.

**Frontend**
* **React.js:** Component-based UI library.
* **Three.js:** 3D graphics rendering engine.
* **Tailwind CSS:** Utility-first styling framework.

**DevOps & Tools**
* **Docker:** Containerization.
* **Postman:** API testing and validation.
* **Visual Studio Code & IntelliJ IDEA:** Development environments.

---
